hey guys welcome back to the channel one
surprisingly successful movie in the
last few years was countdown
there a nurse and her sister download an
app that can tell them when they're
going to die
after finding out that the app is real
and they only have two days left to live
the siblings must find a way to survive
before their timer hits zero
meanwhile they're being taunted by
demonic visions that are slowly driving
them crazy
in this video we'll look at what happens
in the movie as well as how to overcome
the demonic visions and beat the curse
the movie begins at a party where we see
a few teenagers playing drinking games
there one of the girls recommends the
group a weight loss app while searching
for it they stumble upon another app
that can allegedly tell them when
they're going to die
just for fun they download it to see who
would die first most of them have a few
decades left but courtney's phone says
that she only has 3 hours to live
she shows it to her boyfriend evan but
he thinks it's just a bunch of nonsense
at the end of the party courtney is
about to be driven home by evan but he's
completely wasted
she decides not to go with him
immediately after this she gets a
notification from the new app
it says that she has broken the user
agreement courtney starts walking home
but gets followed by a hooded stranger
luckily she makes it safely to her house
but when her timer starts approaching
zero her phone starts making loud noises
that can't be stopped
to calm down she goes into the bathroom
to get a glass of water
as she does this she gets attacked by
something and is thrown into the air
when her timer goes to zero she is
dropped to the floor and dies
at about the same time her boyfriend
crashes his car and we see that courtney
would have been impaled by a massive
tree branch had she driven with him
in courtney's situation it would have
been much safer to stay with her friends
than going home alone
understandably she doesn't want to ride
in a car where the driver is obviously
drunk
but if she's scared for her life she can
ask to sleep over at a friend's place
or walk home with someone else as we'll
see throughout the movie
almost all the deaths happen when people
are alone the demon never seems to
actually kill anyone if there's a random
stranger nearby
we're going to look at this in more
detail later as there are more steps
that need to be done to survive
but it's one of the most consistent
things in the movie we cut to quinn
harris a nurse working on a local
hospital
there evan the guy who survived the car
crash is currently awaiting an important
surgery
he tells quinn about the app and out of
curiosity she and all of her colleagues
download it
this time quinn's countdown says that
she has less than three days left
in the meantime evan looks at the
countdown app which tells him that he'll
die during the operation
to calm down he goes out of his room but
is followed by a dark creature
evan tries running from it and flees to
the stairs when he enters the light shut
off he begins hearing footsteps and sees
a demonic version of courtney
when his countdown runs out he is thrown
off the railing and falls to his death
during evan's death there isn't any new
information that's given to us
but we do see that he died when he was
alone it was only when he was alone in
the staircase that he started seeing the
demon
now being in a crowd or with others that
alone won't save you from being killed
but as you'll see it plays a key role in
your survival
what some people might think is that
even if you're in a crowd the demon will
still come to kill you
but will simply be invisible to everyone
else and that was my first thought too
but later in the movie we see that the
demon can be seen by everyone
this is a scene towards the end of the
film where the being approaches a group
of people
and this character over here doesn't
have the countdown app yet he can see
the demon as well
so it's visible to everyone upon hearing
the news that evan died quinn is
surprised to see that the app
accurately predicted his death she tries
looking at his phone to get more
information but it's locked
and the way the phone is open is one of
the strangest things i've ever seen
it says complete the circle to unlock
and quinn interprets this as the phone
needing a fingerprint to open
so she goes into the morgue and finds
evan's dead body to get his fingerprint
then she requires a face scan to gain
access to his phone
okay what what what is she doing right
now
if you're if you're doing face id you
can't hold it
half an inch from his face and she's
holding it over his forehead from that
angle all the camera seizes his eyebrows
you
you can't hold it like this you hold it
like this like a normal person not like
this
when she unlocks it she sees that his
countdown has reached zero
seeing this she cancels her plans for
the weekend she was supposed to go out
with her younger
sister but the app tells her that this
is the exact time that she dies so she
doesn't want to go
after she cancels it her phone too says
that she has broken the user agreement
she sees this while walking down an
empty corridor then while passing an
open room she sees the outline of the
demon
only a few seconds later the lead doctor
talks to her
the outline of the demon here is the
first time quinn has a vision
these visions will start once the user
agreement is broken
you will be taunted by demonic visions
until the moment of your death
this is not the demon coming to kill you
but it's simply messing with you
trying to make you crazy after seeing
this quinn gets really bothered by the
app so she tries to delete it but no
matter what she tries
it simply won't uninstall that evening
she investigates the death of courtney
in her apartment
she sees a video of the demon attacking
one of the people whose countdown
runs out after that she's startled by
the dead evan screaming at her
what's important to note here is that
this is another demonic vision
this time of evan however these visions
can't hurt you
if it's not your time to die yet nothing
will happen once you understand this
you'll get a lot less scared by them
yes they might start on you a bit but
then you can just start making fun of
them
at this point they're basically like the
underpaid actors in a haunted house
they can scare you but they're not
allowed to hurt you so that night quinn
sleeps in her car
out of fear that something is in her
home in the morning her sister jordan
asked if she can stay in the apartment
instead of being babysitted
but quinn tells her that it's not a good
idea jordan sees that she downloaded the
app and also gets quite curious
later that day quinn goes to a phone
store and asked to buy a new one with a
new sim card
but only a few seconds later that phone
too has the countdown app
now it's unclear if deleting the app
actually does anything
i assume that having it contributes at
least a little bit to the curse since
the characters spend a good portion of
the movie
trying to uninstall and delete it
otherwise if it made no difference if
they owned the app or not
why would the film focus so strongly on
it so if removing the countdown helps
you can get a phone that doesn't support
any third-party apps
get one of those old nokia phones that
can only display green and black
you can also get a simpler phone that
doesn't have enough storage
it's later revealed that the program
takes up about 60 gigabytes of space
simply get a phone that doesn't even
have that much storage and you should be
good to go
the app is now successfully off your
phone and cannot be installed
after getting the new phone she goes
into her car where she sees the demon in
her back camera
but when she looks out the window
nothing is there when she looks at it
closer it appears right behind her
grabbing her face
this causes quinn to back up and run
into another car in the parking lot
this tells us that driving while the app
is counting down can be extremely
dangerous
since the vision can appear at any point
in time it can cause you to get into an
accident which can impair your ability
to survive the curse
so try to only use public transportation
if it attacks you there you might seem
like a weirdo in public
but it's much safer anyways the owner
gets pretty upset and goes to yell at
her
then a guy called matt comes to defend
her and tells the man to get away from
her
he overheard her talking in the store
and says that he knows she's seeing
things
and so is he matt shows her his phone
and it's revealed that he too owns the
countdown app
and his runs out a few hours before
quinn's the two go to a bar to discuss
what's happening to them
they talk about the strange moment when
the app tells them that they have broken
the user agreement
both of them are really confused as they
have no idea what the agreement even
says
they want to look at the terms and
conditions but the only way to read it
is when the app is open for the first
time
they find some flat earther in the bar
and tell them about the app
when he downloads it they see that by
accepting the terms they must accept
their fate
and can't use the app's information to
alter it this is what they both did by
canceling trips where they were supposed
to die
so since they won't die naturally a
demon is after them
they decide to go to the priest in
quinn's hospital they tell him about the
app however he doesn't really believe in
this sort of stuff
but he knows someone else who can help
before they leave matt goes to the
bathroom
in there he also sees a vision taunting
him about his little remaining time
but when another man comes into the room
the being disappears
this is the clearest evidence we get
that the visions disappear when a
stranger sees you
so if you're constantly around people
who don't have the app
they won't appear instead they happen
exclusively when you're alone in your
apartment or alone in your car
something like that what you can do to
avoid situations like this
is hire a bodyguard to follow you around
everywhere
the guys matt and quinn show that they
have a few thousand dollars and a car
they're willing to trade in
that should be enough to hire a security
guard for a few days
the average cost for a security guard is
thirty dollars an hour
thirty dollars an hour times twenty four
hours times three days
is two thousand one hundred and dollars
which by overdrawing their credit cards
and selling the car they can scrap
together
you don't even need to get a good
security guard since they only have to
take care of a fake demon that
disappears once a stranger approaches
the toilet situation is a little tricky
since they can't stand in front of the
urinal for you
but the guard can wait outside and when
something attacks you you can scream for
help
the guard walks in and just like how the
man who walks in on matt makes the
vision disappear
so would the guard but again this
doesn't stop the demon from killing you
this is only effective against the
creepy visions however if your timer
runs out you'll still die because it's
not the visions that kill you but the
demon
quinn and matt decided to go to the
other priest that was recommended to
them they find him in the back of a
local church eating on the body of
christ chirps
they ask him if he believes in real life
demons and he does
he looks through a few religious texts
and finds a story that is very similar
to theirs
it's about a prince who needs to lead an
army into battle
looking for help he goes to a gypsy
woman and asks if he will survive
she gives him a piece of paper with a
number on it the woman tells him that
it's the exact time he will die
but he can't use the information to save
himself the prince looks at the number
and determines that it's during the
battle he's supposed to be in
out of fear he sends his younger brother
to war instead however the brother
doesn't die
and surprisingly wins the battle the
gypsy woman then tells the prince that
now a demon named ozin will track him
down and torment him until he dies
the priest tells the two that he
believes that this app is a modern
version of that curse
and if he could only see the source code
of the app he will know for sure
quinn tells him that she knows someone
who can hack into the app they go back
to the repair store and ask the owner to
hack it
he tells them no but after bribing him
with their credit cards he accepts
he looks into the app's code and sees
everybody's countdown
including quinn's younger sister jordans
which runs out a few minutes before hers
among all the timers is some latin which
they take a picture of
derek also shows them that he can simply
increase the timer by adding any number
of years to their countdown
they all increase their timer by a
reasonable number of years
thinking they have beaten the curse they
decide to go home together to talk about
what has happened
once they fall asleep all the lights go
out in the middle of the night quinn
hears someone outside their door
she tries waking up matt but he seems to
be sleeping too tight
the footsteps keep approaching and
eventually the door opens
but instead of it being some stranger
it's matt himself
fuenda notices that the armor rounder is
not really mats but it demons
she gets attacked by it but when matt
intervenes it disappears
they get a notification on their phone
and see that their countdown went back
to what it was
all the years derek added are no longer
there now their method of changing the
timer
actually seemed to work but only for a
short time the movie shows that it takes
at least a few hours for their timer to
update to go back to what it was
so there is something they can try quinn
and matt can ask derek to do the exact
same thing and increase their timer
a short period before the countdown runs
out since we see that it takes quite a
while to update and display the correct
time
by the time the countdown app shows
their real timer it would already be
past 0. this is crucial because father
john later tells them that you only need
to survive one second longer than what
the countdown app says
in order to survive the method i just
outlined is of course not guaranteed
i mean let's be honest nothing in this
video is but it's at least worth a try
we cut the quinn's sister jordan as
she's being babysitted at home
she sneaks around the house to get her
phone and sees that her countdown is
also going
back to what it was then she sees a
shadow creature around the house that
keeps coming closer
she doesn't know what to do so she hides
under the bed she also gets attacked by
a vision so she tries to flee the house
once she goes outside jordan runs into
quinn and matt
they all agree that it's best to quickly
go to father john and ask him for help
after they arrive he looks at the latin
written in the app source code
and sees that it's a curse from the
devil he interprets this as good news
and tells them that if they can prove
satan a liar they can break the curse
all they need to do is survive the
countdown one second longer than they
were supposed to and the curse is broken
another option is killing someone whose
countdown shows that they have much
longer to live
father jon tells them that there are
protection rituals to buy them enough
time to beat the curse
one such way is to make a special circle
of salt and they're safe inside
they mix some salt with paint and draw
it on the floor and this father john
tells them will keep them safe from ozen
with only minutes left on matt's clock
they go inside it
suddenly the lights go out seconds later
ozen arrives but can't seem to enter the
circle
once he realizes this he disappears and
matt's phone starts making loud noises
[Applause]
moments later the demon reappears in the
form of matt's younger brother
the others focus on the loud noises that
the app is making but matt doesn't hear
any of it
he talks to his brother and gets lured
out of the circle
suddenly a hand grabs his leg and matt
gets dragged away by the demon
he's then chased out into the street
both quinn and jordan run after him only
to see him get hit by a car
once his timer finally hit zero matt's
death was probably avoidable
as the others were focused on the loud
sounds of their phone
he was seeing his brother but as we've
seen many times now if you're
interrupted by someone the vision stops
now father john is nearby however he
isn't looking at mad and is completely
distracted by the noises
if both father john and quinn would talk
to matt he would most likely snap out of
the vision
just like he did in the bathroom when
the stranger walked in we also see the
best way to avoid the demon
it is to simply draw the circle of salt
on the floor and it can't enter once
it's been blessed
but here is the part where being around
others really matters
we see that matt was easily manipulated
into stepping out of the circle
if you had someone else paying attention
to you they could stop you from exiting
and it's important not to be distracted
by anything
so look at each other and not your
phones and make sure nobody walks out
if your phone starts making noises just
throw them away
in fact you shouldn't even bring it in
the first place after they all walk
out of the church jordan reveals that
she got injured and quickly needs to go
to the hospital
now during matt's death it kind of made
sense for matt to exit the circle
he believed to see his younger brother
even though he knows the demon is
playing tricks on him
and quinn went after him because she
really liked him but there is
absolutely no reason for jordan to exit
the circle
it doesn't make sense for her to run
after quinn because the demon comes
after jordan first
her timer runs out three minutes before
quinn's by staying in the circle she
would have automatically saved her
sister
they all know that the demon can't hurt
them if it's not their time
that's what father john told them and
the visions don't really do anything
running after quinn only made things
more complicated than they needed to be
if she simply stayed in the circle they
would have beaten it once jordan's timer
runs out
also in a situation like this it's
important to act selfish
don't worry about helping others save
yourself first
then assist your friends because they're
dealing with supernatural forces
it's highly unlikely that you can do
anything to help them anyways
so they arrive at the er and get jordan
fixed up but there is no more time to
get back to jon's church
quinn then gets the idea to kill one of
the lead doctors who has been harassing
her ever since she started working there
he also has the app and the timer says
that he has a few decades left
meaning that if he's killed before his
clock runs out the curse is disproven
just as much if quinn would survive one
second longer she lures him into a
closed-off wing of the hospital
and attacks him but before she can kill
him the demon protects the doctor so
that she can't win
with their time running out they see
that killing the doctor isn't an option
then with only a few seconds left on
jordan's clock quinn injects herself
with a lethal amount of morphine
her goal is to die a few seconds early
to disprove the curse and save
jordan once the drug starts taking
effect the demon turns into a cloud of
dust and falls apart
they've beaten the curse but suffered a
big loss jordan then walks over to her
sister and sees that she should inject
her with something called narcan which
counteracts the morphine overdose
after doing this quinn wakes up and
appears to be alright
they survived only two seconds before
jordan's death
here we see that you don't actually need
to die when the timer hits zero
you simply need to be in cardiac arrest
the demon doesn't go by the biological
definition of death which would be brain
and brain stem death
instead it goes after the clinical
definition which is simply lack of a
heartbeat and breathing
the difference being that people do come
back from clinical death
however biological death is irreversible
the morphine overdose just put quinn in
cardiac arrest so she meets the clinical
definition of death
with this information we know that even
if you do technically die
there is a slim chance that you can be
brought back researchers estimate that
seven percent of people will make a full
recovery
since ozin will only put you in cardiac
arrest and count that as death and then
leave
there is a chance you'll survive this
once again ties in with you being around
others
let's say ozen drowns you if you're
alone you will get irreversible brain
damage that leads to death
however if you're around your friends
who can call an ambulance and perform
cpr
there is a chance of you surviving in
ozen's eyes you technically died because
you're in cardiac arrest so his job is
done
but you can still come back so those are
some of the ways to beat the death app
from countdown
we've looked at how to overcome the
demonic visions and how to beat the
demon
as always let me know if i missed
anything i hope i get to see you in the
next one
bye guys
[Music]
you